# Ontology Free Domain Specific Summarisation

Automatic text summarisation greatly reduces the effects of information overload. Information overload is a result of dealing with a great quantity and redundancy of information. Automatic text summarisation reduces these effects by producing a summary that covers the most salient content of a document in a much shorter form. Domain specific summarisation further reduces information overload by providing summaries tailored to an information need. Domain specific summarisation uses domain supervised ontologies to summarise domain content with respect to the term and topic relationships within a domain. Many of the methods that exist for performing automatic text summarisation fail to respect and identify the semantic relationships of terms and topics in a domain, and most online content does not have formal ontologies and thus domain specific summarisation methods that rely on ontologies can not serve them. This paper presents the extent to which existing automatic summarisation methods can be combined to create a domain specific personalised summarisation system that does not rely on supervised ontologies. From a review of the field of automatic text summarisation, the classifications, tasks, and methods of summarisation were identified. A system was then designed and implemented, in order to evaluate the extent that the proposed system can provide domain specific personalised summaries, without use of a supervised domain model. The comparative evaluation of this system with state-of-the-art extractive summarisation methods, found the proposed system to be a competitive method for both single document and multi-document summarisation. The examination of the system’s personalised summary performance, determined that the proposed system is an effective system for performing domain specific summarisation. The proposed system demonstrates that existing methods of automatic text summarisation can be used to construct a domain specific personalised summarisation system, to serve much of the domain specific content online without formal ontologies.

[Demo Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lbF6Xu1B55H0ct7pSM_3tUuhA4Q0RhPy/view?usp=sharing)
[Full paper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Y3Fi93cSIrpwMdESiWZttIJ4D5EXXP2c/view?usp=sharing)
